# EduAttain
A tool to study demographic indicators' (race, income, gender, etc.) impact on educational attainment (capturing any inverse effects).

## Introduction & Motivation
For my senior composition project, I want to study the impact that different economic and demographic indicators have on educational attainment. This topic is of interest to me because I was raised to consider education as one of the greatest gifts and privileges that can be given, especially considering my own family's experience as migrant workers and blue-collar laborers (due to their own lack of education). Having my own perception and experience of the factors that can impact educational attainment, I want to be able to study these factors more formally to determine whether or not there are linkages present. Additionally, I feel the research completed for this project can result in policy suggestions that could work to increase the accessibility to an education and in promoting educational equity.

There is evidence in how income, and more specifically socioeconomic status, can impact one’s education. For example, children from families with a low socioeconomic status “are less likely to have experiences that encourage the development of fundamental skills of reading acquisition” and “to have access to informational resources about college”. (APA) Not only are access to education and development of certain skills impacted by socioeconomic status, but so is academic achievement; low-income children “enter high school with average literacy skills five years behind those of high-income students”, have a lower success rate in the fields of “science, technology, engineering, and mathematics” than those not from underrepresented groups, and have a higher likelihood of dropping out of high school (11.6%) compared to their high-income counterparts (2.8%). (APA)

## Technical Details & Future Plans

For my project, I am considering it a two-part "mission", as I am not only trying to perform data analysis but also displaying it in a user-friendly manner using a web platform. As a result of this two-fold endeavor, I will be employing the use of various tools to study the impact of different indicators on educational attainment. For my data analysis, I plan to use R and R-Studio to run statistical tests on and create different visualizations from my data. Speaking of data, for my project I will be using data from [IPUMS CPS](https://cps.ipums.org/cps/) (Integrated Public Use Microdata Series, Current Population Survey), which harmonizes microdata from the Current Population Survey and includes relevant demographic information. I plan to use cross-sectional data from 2010-2021, which encompasses all of the US. I may also have to employ the use of a database to hold my data, since as it stands, it cannot open in R Studio. As for my web platform, I will be doing research over the course of the next few months to decide what tool(s) will be best suited for me in developing this idea.